Design Suite: Towards an Open Scientific Investigation
Environment for Software Architecture Recovery

Pesquisas experimentais sobre recuperação arquitetural sofrem com
a ausência de ambientes de experimentação científicos abertos. Além disso, as
ferramentas atuais possuem baixa interoperabilidade. Este artigo apresenta a
Design Suite, uma suíte de ferramentas que tenta atacar estas questões e que
permite extrair designs de código-fonte, abstraí-los em visões arquiteturais
estruturais e visualizá-las em diferentes leiautes. Designs e visões
arquiteturais são representados por multigrafos dirigidos, tipados e com
atributos, os quais podem ser trocados entre as ferramentas através de GXL,
um padrão baseado em XML. Uma prova de conceito é apresentada como
avaliação preliminar da suíte.

Evolution of Open Source Software Systems – A Large-Scale
Investigation

Abstract – In this paper, the evolution of a large sample of
open source software projects will be analysed. The evolution
of commercial systems has been an issue that has long been a
center of research, thus a coherent theoretical framework of
software evolution has been developed and empirically tested.
Therefore these results can be used to compare the situation in
open source projects to the evolution of commercial projects.
This allows to assess whether the underlying software process
indeed significantly differs. The data collection methodology
relying on a large software repository and the respective
source code control systems is described, and an overview on
the collected data on several thousand projects is given. The
evolutionary behaviour is explored using both a linear and a
quadratic model, with the quadratic model significantly
outperforming the linear one. The most interesting fact is that
while in the mean the growth rate is decreasing over time
according to the laws of software evolution, especially larger
projects with a higher number of participants might be more
often able to sustain super-linear growth.

