23. Analyzing Java software by combining metrics and program visualization (nao encontrei o PDF)
Abstract: Shimba, a prototype reverse engineering environment, has been built to support the understanding of
Java software. Shimba uses Rigi and SCED to analyze, visualize, and explore the static and dynamic aspects,
respectively, of the subject system. The static software artifacts and their dependencies are extracted from Java
byte code and viewed as directed graphs using the Rigi reverse engineering environment. The static dependency
graphs of a subject system can be annotated with attributes, such as software quality measures, and then be analyzed
the Chidamber and Kemerer suite of object-oriented metrics. The metrics measure properties of the classes, the
and visualized using scripts through the end-user programmable interface. Shimba has recently been extended with
inheritance hierarchy, and the interaction among classes of a subject system. Since Shimba is primarily intended
for the analysis and exploration of Java software, the metrics have been tailored to measure properties of software
components written in Java. We show how these metrics can be applied in the context of understanding software
systems using a reverse engineering environment. The static dependency graphs of the system under investigation
are decorated with measures obtained by applying the object-oriented metrics to selected software components.
Shimba provides tools to examine these measures, to find software artifacts that have values that are in a given range,
and to detect correlations among different measures. The object-oriented analysis of the subject Java system can be
investigated further by exporting the measures to a spreadsheet. (25 refs)

11. Software visualization in software maintenance, reverse engineering, and re-engineering: A research survey
Abstract: Software visualization is concerned with the static visualization as well as the animation of software
artifacts, such as source code, executable programs, and the data they manipulate, and their attributes, such as size,
complexity, or dependencies. Software visualization techniques are widely used in the areas of software maintenance,
reverse engineering, and re-engineering, where typically large amounts of complex data need to be understood and
a high degree of interaction between software engineers and automatic analyses is required. This paper reports
the results of a survey on the perspectives of 82 researchers in software maintenance, reverse engineering, and
re-engineering on software visualization. It describes to which degree the researchers are involved in software
visualization themselves, what is visualized and how, whether animation is frequently used, whether the researchers
believe animation is useful at all, which automatic graph layouts are used if at all, whether the layout algorithms
have deficiencies, and - last but not least - where the medium-term and long-term research in software visualization
should be directed. The results of this survey help to ascertain the current role of software visualization in software
engineering from the perspective of researchers in these domains and give hints on future research avenues. (24 refs)

31. Fast analysis of source code in C and C++
Abstract: Static analysis is a popular tool for detecting the vulnerabilities that cannot be found by means of ordinary
testing. The main problem in the development of static analyzers is their low speed. Methods for accelerating such
analyzers are described, which include incremental analysis, lazy analysis, and header file caching. These methods
make it possible to considerably accelerate the detection of defects and to integrate the static analysis tools in the
development environment. As a result, defects in a file edited in the Visual Studio development environment can be
detected in 0.5 s or faster, which means that they can be practically detected after each keystroke. Therefore, critical
vulnerabilities can be detected and corrected at the stage of coding. © Pleiades Publishing, Ltd., 2013. (8 refs)

38. Seesoft--A tool for visualizing line oriented software statistics
Abstract: The Seesoft software visualization system allows one to analyze up to 50,000 lines of code simultaneously
by mapping each line of code into a thin row. The color of each row indicates a statistic of interest, e.g., red rows are
those most recently changed, and blue are those least recently changed. Seesoft displays data derived from a variety
of sources, such as version control systems that track the age, programmer, and purpose of the code (e.g., control
ISDN lamps, fix bug in call forwarding); static analyses, (e.g., locations where functions are called); and dynamic
analyses (e.g., profiling). By means of direct manipulation and high interaction graphics, the user can manipulate this
reduced representation of the code in order to find interesting patterns. Further insight is obtained by using additional
windows to display the actual code. Potential applications for Seesoft include discovery, project management, code
tuning, and analysis of development methodologies. (20 refs)

60. Maintenance tools
Abstract: After a brief overview by P. Oman, eight tools to help the maintenance programmer analyze and understand
code are described in separate presentations. All of them are code-visualization tools. However, while all these
tools show how a program is structured, they use different means to achieve different ends. The tools covered are:
Objective-C Browser; Vifor; Seela; Battle Map; Act; Grasp/Ada; Expert Dataflow and Static Analysis; Surgeon's
Assistant; and Dependency Analysis Tool Set.
